[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
back to "Beyond Belief."
We have heard a lot about
the Knights Templar,
the custodians of
the Shroud of Turin,
the custodians of the
Ark of the Covenant.
But who were they?
How did they get established?
And what happened to them?
With us is renowned
historian Freddy Silva.
Freddy, welcome back
to "Beyond Belief."
>>FREDDY SILVA:
Thank you, George.
>>NOORY: You have a book
dedicated to the Knights
Templar, don't you?
>>SILVA: I do.
And it was going to
be a very small book.
And then it became a
really, really big book.
And it was really
about the origins
of my country of birth, which,
believe it or not, is Portugal.
>>NOORY: Aha.
>>SILVA: Of course
I sound Portuguese.
And I wanted to find out
what was the relationship
between the two.
And I had no idea
that this story
was going to take me
down a long rabbit
hole of why the
Templars would create
Europe's first nation-state,
which is Portugal.
And also why would they go
as far from Rome as possible
to basically instill
something there
that I had no idea
what it would be.
And it turns out, it was
all related to the Grail.
>>NOORY: Really.
>>SILVA: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: We'll get into that.
What's the name of this book?
>>SILVA: First Templar Nation.
>>NOORY: First Templar Nation.
Now, the Knights Templar, of
course, established by whom?
>>SILVA: Well, this
is the fun part.
Most people consider them
to be part of the Crusades.
They were not.
They were a group of
fellows who basically
went into Jerusalem on
the back of the Crusades
and used the opportunity to
go and look for something
which is already prearranged.
And I had no idea
that the person--
the linchpin of the
whole organization
was a man called
Bernard of Clairvaux,
who was the head of the
Cistercian Order of monks.
>>NOORY: And what time
period are we talking about?
>>SILVA: We're talking
about early 12th century
now, 1100 A.D. And
basically there
was a small band
of men who worked
their way into Jerusalem.
And they stayed at the
Church of the Holy Sepulcher
for a short while.
Hugues de Payens
was one of them.
And Godfrey de Saint-Omer
was the second one.
And then something happened
where they decided,
we really don't want to
hang out here much more.
We want to go and look for
something very, very specific.
And we need someone
to really help
us understand what it is
that we're looking for.
And that's where
Bernard comes in.
He hand-picks most of
the original Templar
Knights, two of which it turns
out were actually Portuguese.
But there's a third
portion of the story, which
is a group of people who
were very, very mysterious
and which very little is known
about called the Order of Sion,
who actually were fundamental to
the creation of the Templars--
along with the
Cistercian monks--
who then allowed the Templars
to go on this secret mission
to Temple Mount and
eventually create
the first country of Europe.
>>NOORY: What were
they looking for?
Why Jerusalem, first of all?
>>SILVA: Well, when you
start looking at the Templars
and how they behaved,
they behave much more
or less like a
magisterial college,
as though they had a
very spiritual intent.
There is no doubt that
people had to sort of protect
themselves back in the day.
There's a lot of
fighting going on.
The economy was basically
an economy of plunder.
Even monks had to learn how
to fight rather than write.
And it turns out
that they simply
were guided by a very
spiritual principle.
They were looking for
something very specific.
Now, we have to understand,
first of all, that these people
were very rich.
They were nobles in Europe.
And yet, they gave up
all of their wealth
to go traveling 2000
miles to the Middle East,
to labor in really hot
and dusty conditions,
to dig tunnels on the Temple
Mount to find treasure.
It doesn't make sense.
Why not sit at home,
keep your money,
and avoid all the problems?
>>NOORY: How many were there?
>>SILVA: There were actually 11.
Most people claim
that there were nine.
There were actually--
>>NOORY: That's it?
>>SILVA: That it.
>>NOORY: The Knights
Templar started at 11?
>>SILVA: It's amazing, isn't it?
>>NOORY: I thought it was
like an army of people.
>>SILVA: Oh, no, no.
Those were the Crusaders.
It took me about two
years to finally sort out
all of these different factions
and figure out who was who.
It's very, very confusing.
They all seem to get
lumped into the Crusaders.
But there was actually
other factions
like the Knights Hospitallers,
who were actually
the people who were
actually protecting
the pilgrims in Jerusalem.
And they're already 40
years ahead of the Templars.
The Templars really didn't
do any protecting at all.
They actually were sequestered
inside Temple Mount.
And they literally spent most
of their time digging tunnels
towards a central location,
which was recently
validated by archeology.
So they were looking for
something very specific
that was hidden there.
And yes, they
eventually discovered
quite a bit of gold bullion.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>SILVA: That is validated.
But the one thing that they
were very much looking for
was scrolls.
>>NOORY: Scrolls of what?
>>SILVA: Scrolls
written by the Essenes--
>>NOORY: Aha.
>>SILVA: --that they
had buried there.
Because the Essenes
and the Templars--
>>NOORY: Some of which we
found in the Dead Sea Scrolls.
>>SILVA: Absolutely.
And it makes you wonder
why were they buried there
in the first place?
It seems to-- and to
understand that, you
have to first of all get
under the skin of Bernard
of Clairvaux.
Why was he behind the Templars?
What was the fundamental drive?
And the drive was to create
a pure state of Christianity.
And I'm talking about a
concept that has nothing
to do with the Catholic Church.
This is something--
a frame of mind
that is much more a
Buddhist construct.
>>NOORY: Powerful people.
>>SILVA: Very much so.
But they wanted a very pure
understanding of Christianity
and a spiritual value.
Because they recognized
that no matter
how much wealth you gather,
unless you take care of this
and this, you've got nothing.
You're just basically a dead
body walking through life
and having a very
hard experience.
They wanted a spiritual
understanding, a bigger picture
of what it means to be human.
And it's almost like a new age
ideal that they were following.
And in the end, yes, they
did find a lot of scrolls.
They came back to Europe
under secret guidance.
And they employed cryptographers
to actually unravel
what was in the scrolls,
which tells me they
had nothing to do with money.
It had something to do
with a spiritual treasure.
>>NOORY: They needed
to find that out.
Let's look at more about
the Dead Sea Scrolls.
>>STEPHEN FRY: Well,
here in Jerusalem
there's the aptly named
Shrine of the Book, where
some of the most precious
religious writings
are on display.
But even in these special and
carefully climate-controlled
conditions, some
of the older texts
are in danger of being
lost to us forever.
The most famous
documents displayed here
are the Dead Sea Scrolls,
fragments of biblical texts
and religious writings
from the time of Christ.
The Scrolls lay hidden
for nearly two millennia
until a Bedouin shepherd
stumbled upon them in 1946.
>>PNINA SHOR: They are
believed to be the discovery
of the 20th century.
We're talking about a corpus
of over 900 manuscripts,
comprising all of the
books of the Bible.
>>FRY: Right.
>>SHOR: And these are the
oldest copies of the Bible
that we have, 2000 years old.
>>FRY: Wow.
>>SHOR: We have--
>>FRY: These ancient
texts are so fragile,
that only four highly trained
researchers from the Israel
Antiquities Authority
are allowed actually
to handle them.
>>NOORY: Was the Bible based
on the Dead Sea Scrolls?
>>SILVA: Far from it, actually.
In fact, they seem to
have actually sidelined
everything that seemed
to be of spiritual value,
true spiritual value.
And they created almost
like a shadow Bible--
or shall I say a
selective Bible--
based on the ideas and
ideals of a group of men
who wanted to take
over the power vacuum
that, at that time in
Europe, had been left
by the imploding Roman Empire.
So the more important scrolls
and the more important gospels
of the more spiritual
aspects about the empowerment
of the self, the finding
of God within the person,
not asking a bishop
or a priest to find
God outside of oneself--
so these are very
Buddhist ideals.
And that's what the Gospel
of Thomas deals with,
the Gospel of Philip.
And these are all
the gnostic gospels
that were found hidden away by
the Essenes, and also in Egypt.
So these people
obviously were trying
to maintain a very
spiritual lineage going back
at least 6,000 years.
And that's what the
Templars were actually
trying to create and
bring back to Europe.
>>NOORY: Freddy, weren't
the Templars eventually
attacked and murdered
on Friday the 13th?
That's why we have this
bad luck day all the time.
Didn't something happen to them?
>>SILVA: It was not
fun, that's for sure.
>>NOORY: Who expunged them?
>>SILVA: Well, basically what
happened was the Templars
had grown very-- over the
course of about 150 years,
the Templars were loved
in Europe by the people.
Because they said,
well, we'll give you
protection from the church.
We're going to teach you a
spiritual ideal about the self.
We're going to nurture your
sense of community, education,
looking after the
poor, hospitals.
And the peasants--
>>NOORY: Sounds good to me.
>>SILVA: Absolutely.
This was like nothing
what the church
was preaching at the time.
We'll give you
anything that we have.
And that's how they grew rich,
by people literally donating
money, and wealth, and land.
And then they basically
gave them back.
So they create these sort of
new age communities in a sense.
So the church was
getting a little bit
concerned about this.
>>NOORY: Ah.
>>SILVA: But here's
the big part.
>>NOORY: They didn't like this.
>>SILVA: Philip
of France was also
very keen to join the inner
Templar brotherhood, who
were practicing a very secret
spiritual doctrine called
the raising of the dead,
which really goes back
to the concept of Resurrection.
But not in the way
that we think it is.
It has nothing to
do with dead people.
So he wanted to know
more about this concept
of self-empowerment.
Now, the Templars realized
that Philip was about as honest
as a $15 note.
So basically they
said, no, I'm sorry.
You can't join the
inner brotherhood.
So basically Philip said, OK.
I'm going to basically
tell the church that you've
been honoring a devil
called Baphomet,
that you practice all kinds
of perverse sexual acts.
And also, because I owe you
phenomenal amounts of money,
it means I don't
have to pay you back
if the church comes by
and takes you all out.
And that's how the pope became
embroiled in this whole drama.
The pope really
was just concerned
that the Templars were taking
power away from the church.
But Philip basically
made it out to be
much, much deeper than this.
It was more like a
complete contradiction
of Catholic values.
So they basically
concocted this between them
to get rid of the Templar
order on Friday the 13th.
And many of them already
had full knowledge.
Most of them escaped to
Portugal and Scotland,
and then created Scottish
Rite Freemasonry.
So they're still around.
>>NOORY: How did they end
up being the protectors
of the Shroud of Turin?
>>SILVA: Now, that
I'm not so sure.
Because one of the
[INAUDIBLE] pieces of evidence
I've found for the
Shroud of Turin
was the fact that it's
actually the image,
not of Christ, but of
Jacques de Maille, who
was the Templar master at
the time of Friday the 13th.
And if you actually look at the
visage on the actual shroud,
the features are
very modern European.
>>NOORY: They are.
>>SILVA: They are
not Semitic at all.
>>NOORY: They
don't look Semitic.
>>SILVA: And that's your first
clue that obviously there's
something wrong with
the perceived idea
that it is the shroud of Christ.
The Templars didn't
give much about Christ.
Their person that they
revered was John the Baptist
and Mary Magdalene.
And you can see this--
>>NOORY: Really?
>>SILVA: Oh, absolutely.
You look at all the
churches that they erected.
They are all dedicated to John
the Baptist or Mary Magdalene.
Because they were
following and protecting
the actual holy bloodline,
the true holy bloodline,
which is a
matriarchal bloodline.
And when I was doing some
research into this project--
and again, I wasn't
trying to find the work
to fill a certain
idea that I had.
I let the research guide me.
And I followed the
doors where they led me.
And one of the things that I
found in this-- and there's
only two copies of this
book available in the world,
written on animal skin.
One of them is at Harvard.
I had to beg them
to go in and let
me read this in medieval
Portuguese, which
took a long time.
And there's no index.
And somewhere on page
700, suddenly there's
a swearing-in ceremony of the
Templar master in Portugal
that says within the
swearing-in ceremony,
I vow to protect the
bloodline of David.
>>NOORY: Interesting take.
>>SILVA: Now, why would you have
a swearing ceremony in Portugal
unless there was a
bloodline to protect?
So that was their motive.
It was to maintain the spiritual
tradition that goes back
thousands of years, well
before Christianity,
to bring back the sense
of spirituality at a time
when Europe had a
complete lack of it.
>>NOORY: Freddy, let's look
more about the Templars
and their existence.
>>EDWARD COLEMAN: The
Templars come into existence
in the wake of the
aftermath of the Crusades.
There is a perceived
problem about the protection
of pilgrims who were coming in
greater numbers to Jerusalem
in the wake of the success
of the First Crusade.
And the Templars are
organized effectively
to provide that escort.
>>NARRATOR: They set up
their headquarters here
at the Al-Aqsa mosque
on Temple Mount.
For over 60 years, this
would be the knights' center
of power, their military
and religious headquarters.
Many believe this to
be the original site
of Solomon's temple.
For centuries,
Christian scholars
had speculated about
its mystical purpose.
The Knights were
fascinated by this place.
So much so that they
called themselves
the Poor Fellow-Soldiers
of Christ
and the Temple of Solomon,
a title eventually
shortened the Knights Templar.
>>NOORY: Are there still
Templars today like that,
that we just saw?
>>SILVA: Oh, I think so.
I think these people
were clever enough
to understand that it's
one thing to stand up
for your belief systems
and die for them.
It's another thing if you just
basically give lip service,
and then change your name with
a bit of public relations,
and continue living and telling
people the bigger picture.
So they essentially became
Scottish Rite Freemasons
or Rosicrucians.
>>NOORY: Aha.
What an evolution.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
So they're still around today.
Just under a different guise.
In fact, one of the
biggest practical jokes
that was played in
history goes back to--
I think it was the 1500s.
No, actually just before that.
And it was when the pope
was trying to extinguish
the Templar order in Portugal.
So the Templars created this
entire country from scratch.
And the pope didn't
have any idea
what was going on in there.
He sends a letter out.
And it says, the Templars
need to be exterminated.
They're a big problem.
There worshipping devils--
>>NOORY: Nice of the
pope to say that, right.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
And he didn't realize
that the king of Portugal
was himself a Templar Knight.
And eventually the
king said, well,
we can't keep fighting the
pope and the Spanish army.
I'll tell you what.
Why don't you go
away on vacation?
Go to the Algarve.
It's a nice place.
Go away for a few years.
Let me have the money and
the lands that belong to you.
And I will write to
the pope, and I'll say,
pope, the Knights
Templar no longer exist,
you'll be glad to know.
But incredibly enough, there's
a brand new order of knights
that's just appeared here--
>>NOORY: Another
group has popped up.
>>SILVA: --called the Order
of the Knights of Christ.
And the pope said,
thank you, my son.
Well done.
The Templars come
back from the Algarve
after a six year vacation.
They go see the king.
And the king says, right.
You are no longer
the Knights Templar.
We're not?
No, you are now to be called the
Order of the Knights of Christ,
savvy?
And they went, OK.
And here's your money.
And here's your land.
And let's get back
to the project
that we started
here, which includes
discovering the New World called
Newfoundland in Nova Scotia.
>>NOORY: Were these good people?
>>SILVA: They were
very good people.
They were very spiritual.
The original core, absolutely,
when it was still manageable.
They grew so big, so fast, that
all the checks and balances
began to break down.
And then of course, a
lot of nefarious people
began to be attracted
by the concept
that, perhaps, they
were very, very wealthy.
They were wealthy.
But that wasn't the
point why they existed.
The wealth was really
generated from the fact
that they were great traders.
And they were able to actually
promote good things to people,
including looking after
the sick, the infirm,
educating the children
of peasants, of course.
>>NOORY: They were
caring people.
>>SILVA: They were
loved by people.
They were absolutely loved.
And yes, they also proposed
equality with women.
And they also validated
Muslims and other people.
>>NOORY: Why, Freddy, were
they so controversial then?
>>SILVA: Because of the
politics of the period.
They were practicing
a spirituality
where God is an inner concept.
It's an inner experience
of the individual.
And that individual should
decide their own fate.
So it's a very
spiritual doctrine.
At the time, the church
couldn't allow that.
Because for God to exist,
they have to be in power.
They have to be talked to.
They have to be approached.
They act as an intermediary
between you and your salvation.
They weren't offering salvation.
If you didn't believe in
what the church was selling,
you'd basically be, well,
crucified or tortured to death,
as a lot of women discovered
during the witch hunt trials
and during the Inquisition.
So these were people
who were not practicing
a true Christian value.
The Templars were actually more
Christians than the Christians.
>>NOORY: There has
always been rumors
that the Templars had
possession of the Ark
of the Covenant, that
incredible box that
held the Ten Commandments.
Did they?
Did they have it?
>>SILVA: I don't know.
>>NOORY: Is it in a
church in Ethiopia?
>>SILVA: I actually do believe
Graham Hancock's research
in this.
I read his book.
And I found it very compelling
that the Ark is actually there.
But I also discovered that
there's also various elements
of the Ark around the world.
For example, if you happen
to understand Portuguese,
as I do, and you go to the
most famous site in Portugal,
which is the town of Tomar--
which is actually named for
one of the daughters of Jesus
and Mary Magdalene, by the
way-- which means palm tree.
There are no palm trees
in that part of the world.
At least back then.
It was too cold.
They basically have a
tradition, have a festival
that happens once
every four years
around the summer solstice.
It doesn't honor the
solstice, because that
happens every year.
So why have it every four years?
And it's the Feast
of the Tabuleiros.
Now, unless you're Portuguese,
you don't know what that means.
It's actually a tray.
The Feast of the
Tray, where women
wear a tray on their
heads with these loaves.
And when I read Graham Hancock's
book, The Sign and the Seal,
they have exactly the same
thing happening in Ethiopia
around the churches
where they say
that the true Ark of the
Covenant is actually held.
>>NADIA BILCHIK: And where
is the Ark of the Covenant?
Well, the Ethiopians,
both Christians
and Jewish Ethiopians, believe
that's in a church in Ethiopia.
Now, interestingly enough,
the story and the mystery
has revived because this
particular church developed
a leak.
Which means that the famous
Ark will have to be moved.
Now, why this is a problem
is that the only person
who can actually watch
it is one guardian.
He is the only person
who is allowed to see
this Ark of the Covenant.
>>NEWSCASTER: OK, let me make
sure I've got this right.
They sprung a leak.
So they need to--
>>BILCHIK: To move it.
>>NEWSCASTER: --do some repairs.
>>BILCHIK: Of course.
>>NEWSCASTER: It
needs to be moved.
>>BILCHIK: And he
can't move it alone.
So it may be the first
time in thousands of years
that people get to see it.
>>NEWSCASTER: OK, are
we sure it's there?
Have they been playing a hoax--
>>BILCHIK: Well, can you ever--
>>NEWSCASTER: --on us for years?
>>BILCHIK: What
popular belief is
is that there is some
ancient relic there.
And that they really
believe it is the Ark.
>>NOORY: Now, the
Ark of the Covenant
is a very physical apparatus.
Yet some people have thought,
maybe it's not physical.
It's more spiritual.
What do you think?
>>SILVA: I think it's both.
I think it has components of--
and again, the
writer Graham Hancock
has made a very good and lucid
argument for its location.
There is also a lucid argument
that exists in Portugal,
as well, in the town of Tomar.
And also the fact that what it
contains and what it represents
is a spiritual component.
So I think it's both.
I think we tend to sort of
get very confused whether it's
either-or.
I think there's a lot of
gray areas in between.
In the metaphysical world,
and the world of spirituality,
everything has a
metaphorical component.
And it's all based on the
meeting of matter and spirit.
So the more latitude
you give this question,
the more you understand
what it really means.
>>NOORY: It's been
reported, Freddy,
that those who would come
upon the Ark of the Covenant
would die instantly, like it had
some kind of radiation emitting
from it.
>>SILVA: It sounds
like what they
talk about the entrance halls
to the Hall of Records in Egypt.
It was the same
thing with statues
that had a certain
electromagnetic property
that unless you have the right
incantation or spell, yes,
it would do something to you.
So it obviously was protecting
something very, very important.
I, for one, believe that.
>>NOORY: The Knights Templar--
again, dealing with
the Ark of the Covenant
and possibly the Shroud
of Turin, which you say
was somebody else--
the point here is they seem to
have been a very powerful group
of people.
>>SILVA: They were
amazingly influential.
There was a sort of moral vacuum
in Europe in the Middle Ages.
And they filled that vacuum.
Again, if you look at the
origin of the Templars
and where these
people came from,
they came from some of
the finest noble people
in Europe, in Burgundy.
And Burgundy's the
key to everything.
And basically these
were intellectuals.
These were people
who actually worked--
there were Jews
working with Muslims.
Heaven forbid!
They actually worked
together and shared--
>>NOORY: They were people
who cared about other people.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
It's like, how can we do
things for the common good?
Because everybody-- the reason
why Europe is falling apart
is because they're all fighting
for possession of resources.
>>NOORY: We need them today.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
It's like we're reliving
history all over again.
And so when this group
of intellectuals says,
well, wait a minute.
Let's agree to disagree.
We have our differences.
We have different opinions.
But why not accept
our differences
and find commonalities where
we can work together and grow
together?
If we all prosper,
then we can basically
get on with our belief
system and still get along.
It's not really a very
difficult concept to understand.
And they practiced
what they preached.
And that's why they were loved.
>>NOORY: Why is the perception
of the Templars today somewhat
jaded?
It's not quite as good
as you've just described.
>>SILVA: Because
eventually the organization
grew so fast, so quickly that
the usual checks and balances
that they were using
to allow administration
to the inner brotherhood
fell by the wayside.
I mean, they literally
were outgrowing
their resources and their
ability to manage themselves.
So eventually they
had to just accept
anybody who basically maintained
little kingdoms around Europe.
And I think that's where
the corruption came in.
And yes, there was corruption
towards the 14th century.
>>NOORY: There was.
>>SILVA: There were
people who were using
the Templars for personal gain.
But that's not what the
original mandate was all about.
It's like any organization.
It starts off quite
small and manageable.
As it grows too big,
it's out of control.
The core spiritual
concept is still there.
But there are all of these
pods on the outside that
were totally out of control.
And they were used for
making lots of money
and basically creating little
fiefdoms by themselves.
But that's not what the
original mandate was about.
And we're left with
that perception,
because that's where it ended.
>>NOORY: Could the Knight
Templars exist today
in this environment?
>>SILVA: Oh, absolutely.
They're everywhere.
They're absolutely everywhere.
You'll find them--
>>NOORY: Do they know
they are who they are?
>>SILVA: Oh, I think so.
I think there are pods of
people who still understand
the original principles.
For example, the
Shriners, who were
the sort of public version.
>>NOORY: And
they're good people.
>>SILVA: And they're
very good people.
10% tithing, for example.
Doing charitable works.
The Knights Hospitallers
are still around in Malta,
by the way.
>>NOORY: So there are offshoots
of the Knights Templar.
>>SILVA: They're all sister--
connection groups.
They all basically work together
to create this bigger picture.
Because they recognize
they have things in common.
And if you work together with
the things you have in common,
it means that
everybody benefits.
>>NOORY: The Knights
Templar protected
bloodlines in the past.
Are they still protecting
bloodlines today?
And if so, what are they?
>>SILVA: Oh, I think so.
But I'm not sure that the people
who are part of the bloodline
actually know that they're
part of that bloodline
to protect their identities.
>>NOORY: Their assets.
>>SILVA: Again, politics here.
Waiting for the right moment.
The Order of Sion,
which eventually
became the Priory of Sion--
which of course, became the
focus of Holy Blood, Holy
Grail--
even though that wasn't
the original mandate
that they were looking for.
They found it-- stumbled
upon it by accident.
These people were very keen
on trying to basically protect
the bloodline of David, which
is such an old bloodline that
goes back to Sumeria and the
priestesses of the temple.
It's a matriarchal bloodline.
And basically it was
the understanding
that these people
maintain the true secrets
of the temple, which
is the understanding
of the spiritual
development of the soul
while it's entrapped
in a human body.
So again, it's a
spiritual development.
So because of politics,
because the way the church
won the argument,
because of the way
the church undermined the
Merovingian dynasty, which
was the continuation of
the bloodline in Europe,
in France--
the Carolingians, who were
supported by the church,
won the argument.
They basically exterminated
the Merovingians.
Drove them underground.
And it's still that way today.
So it's looking at
the sort of scenario,
this chess game essentially
playing itself out over,
what, 900 years now?
And I think that
the people who do--
there's a part of
Priory of Sion which
is doing things for
very strange ideals.
But there's another
part of it, which
has a spiritual component.
And it's that along with
the Cistercian group,
and the Templars, and the
Scottish Rite freemasons,
which I believe still
know the location
of the people of the
bloodline and are still trying
to protect their identities.
So it's a very serious thing
as far as they're concerned.
Because it protects a very
deep spiritual concept.
>>NOORY: Could there be a danger
with these individuals who
have this kind of power?
>>SILVA: If the ego is
left unchecked, absolutely.
Because that's what
it comes down to.
Any spiritual teaching is
about the seduction of the ego.
It's about maintaining
your physical impulses
under control.
The first teaching
you'll ever learn.
So the whole concept of
the spiritual teaching
is to actually make sure that
you understand your position
in the bigger scheme of things.
It's not about you.
It's about the bigger picture.
So yes, it's about understanding
how their role plays out
in the current perception
and the paradigm of politics
and religion, and waiting
for the right moment when
that opportunity
arises where everybody
will get that message.
>>NOORY: Could we have
any Knights Templar
involved in politics today?
>>SILVA: Oh, I believe so.
And I think I've already
met a couple of them.
Of course, I can't
tell you who they are.
But yes, I have met
a couple of them.
There are Templar groups
all around the world.
Some of them just
dress up because it's
fun to be in regalia.
But then there are
also other people
who are doing it
very much for real.
And they keep themselves
under the radar.
>>NOORY: They're very serious.
>>SILVA: They're very serious.
They have a good sense
of humor, as well.
But they know exactly
what they're doing.
They know not to
raise their heads
a bit too above the
parapet to make sure they
don't get knocked down again.
>>NOORY: Would we
know their names?
>>SILVA: Not really.
They keep themselves
to themselves.
Again--
>>NOORY: Private people.
>>SILVA: They're humble.
They're very humble people.
Some of them work for
charitable organizations.
Some do a lot of
works for children.
And again, they keep
themselves under the radar.
You know, really, really humble.
>>NOORY: Just enough.
>>SILVA: But some of them are
actually captains of industry.
>>NOORY: If you met a
Knights Templar directly,
what would you ask them today?
>>SILVA: Am I telling the truth?
Yeah, because-- yeah, I mean,
for me, as a researcher--
I mean, I spend a lot
of time making sure
that all my facts are checked.
Which means that it
takes a long time
to write a book on this stuff.
I would find out how close
am I to the real truth.
Because eventually
only the people
directly involved in anything
know the actual truth.
I hope I'm pretty close to it.
And so far, meeting some
of the Scottish Rite
Freemasons and the lectures
I've given for them,
they're saying I'm pretty
damn close to the truth.
>>NOORY: Would
they be frustrated
with what's happening today?
>>SILVA: I think they
recognize the earth for what
it is and the human
condition for what it is.
It's always going
to be frustrating.
And sometimes you
have opportunities
where you can do the things
that you really want to do.
And you accept that
for what it is.
And acceptance is
the key to survival.
So as long as you're
in control of yourself
and your own emotions, and you
are in control of what you do
and what you say, you
do the best you can.
You learn to live and
survive for another day
when the opportunity
arises where
you can do exactly what you
want to do without having
to hide behind the shell.
So I think that they
actually are in control.
Yes, I believe they're
doing the right thing.
>>NOORY: And they
were good people.
>>SILVA: I totally
believe so, yes.
Because everything
they did always had
a spiritual component to it.
And everybody benefits from it.
And from all the
examples that survive
that have been written about
them, from the early days
of the 11th century
and the 12th century,
everybody seems to have
benefited all the time.
>>NOORY: Freddy, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>SILVA: Oh, my pleasure.
>>NOORY: The Knights Templar.
I always believed that they were
a group of warring type people.
Obviously not.
They were here for the
betterment of mankind.
And according to Freddy
Silva, they're still here.
I'm George Noory.
And thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[MUSIC PLAYING]